wiki-rtd/docs/wiki_faq/faq-scraping.md, before:

# Scraping in ES-DE

Scraping is done via [Screenscraper](https://www.screenscraper.fr/) or [TGBD](https://thegamesdb.net/) in the ES-DE interface under scraping.

## Where is my scraped data?

In: `~/retrodeck/ES-DE/downloaded_media` folder.

## I got some weird error message about quota after scraping!

The error message mentions something about quota. You have a quota limit on how much you can scrape each day from [Screenscraper](https://www.screenscraper.fr/) where each item you scrape counts as 1 quota of the daily total.
You can pay them to get a bit more daily quota and show your support or just wait 24 hours.


## The Scraper said: The Server or Service is down?

The service is down, check [Screenscraper](https://www.screenscraper.fr/) when they get back up.


## Can I only scrape one game or can I narrow down the scraping method?
Yes, check the `Guides - ES-DE Frontend 🤖`  for more details.

## Can I move the downloaded_media folder?
 You can move it with the the move RetroDECK option inside the configurator.

## Can I copy the downloaded_media folder to another device?
Yes, just copy it into the other device RetroDECK folder.

## I have donated to Screenscraper how do I get faster scraping?

You have to associate your Screenscraper Account with your Pateron Account.

Check [Screenscraper Pateron](https://www.patreon.com/screenscraper) for instructions.

## The scraping is very slow...
[Screenscraper](https://www.screenscraper.fr/) offers different types of donations that can increase your speed with extra threads.

## My systems storage ran out after scraping...
You can clean out images and videos that takes a lot of space under: `~/retrodeck/downloaded_media`.

### But I still want them...
The only way to still keep them is either delete something else from the storage or buy more storage.

## Can I launch a speicifc game with another emulator then default, but keep the rest on the default?

Yes, if you want for example launch one of the PSX games with Duckstation instead of RetroArch.

First navigate to the game in the gamelist, then open the  `Gamelist Options Menu` - `Edit This Game's Metadata` - `Alternative Emulator` - `Set the emulator here`.

Commit message:

Add instructions for adding personal scraped media

wiki-rtd/docs/wiki_faq/faq-scraping.md, after:

# Scraping in ES-DE

Scraping is done via [Screenscraper](https://www.screenscraper.fr/) or [TGBD](https://thegamesdb.net/) in the ES-DE interface under scraping.

## Where is my scraped data?

In: `~/retrodeck/ES-DE/downloaded_media` folder.

## Can I add my own images, manuals, or other media?

The ES-DE Wiki has [instructions](https://gitlab.com/es-de/emulationstation-de/-/blob/master/USERGUIDE.md?ref_type=heads#manually-copying-game-media-files) on adding your own media.

## I got some weird error message about quota after scraping!

The error message mentions something about quota. You have a quota limit on how much you can scrape each day from [Screenscraper](https://www.screenscraper.fr/) where each item you scrape counts as 1 quota of the daily total.
You can pay them to get a bit more daily quota and show your support or just wait 24 hours.


## The Scraper said: The Server or Service is down?

The service is down, check [Screenscraper](https://www.screenscraper.fr/) when they get back up.


## Can I only scrape one game or can I narrow down the scraping method?
Yes, check the `Guides - ES-DE Frontend 🤖`  for more details.

## Can I move the downloaded_media folder?
 You can move it with the the move RetroDECK option inside the configurator.

## Can I copy the downloaded_media folder to another device?
Yes, just copy it into the other device RetroDECK folder.

## I have donated to Screenscraper how do I get faster scraping?

You have to associate your Screenscraper Account with your Pateron Account.

Check [Screenscraper Pateron](https://www.patreon.com/screenscraper) for instructions.

## The scraping is very slow...
[Screenscraper](https://www.screenscraper.fr/) offers different types of donations that can increase your speed with extra threads.

## My systems storage ran out after scraping...
You can clean out images and videos that takes a lot of space under: `~/retrodeck/downloaded_media`.

### But I still want them...
The only way to still keep them is either delete something else from the storage or buy more storage.

## Can I launch a speicifc game with another emulator then default, but keep the rest on the default?

Yes, if you want for example launch one of the PSX games with Duckstation instead of RetroArch.

First navigate to the game in the gamelist, then open the  `Gamelist Options Menu` - `Edit This Game's Metadata` - `Alternative Emulator` - `Set the emulator here`.
