wiki-rtd/docs/wiki_rd_versions/version_0.8.0b/0.8.2b.md, before:

# RetroDECK 0.8.2b

**Release date:** 2024-06-XX

## Updates

Everything was updated to their latest version where possible.

- Emulators
- ES-DE
- Engines
- RetroArch: Stable Cores and Nightly Cores


## Freedesktop upgrade

We upgraded freedesktop to 6.7, the original plan was to do this during 0.9.0b but we manged to squeeze it in now thanks to new PR's in Dolphin and Primehack.

## RetroDECK Configurator

**Added:**

- A new `Empty ROMs folder removal` tool. This tools cleans up empty folders from `retrodeck/roms`. It's for those users that don't want to have a bunch of empty subfolders populating `retrodeck/roms` to keep it slim and clean for the games they play.
- A new `Rebuild removed ROMs folders` tool. It's for those users that did not want to have a bunch of empty folders populating `retrodeck/roms` and ran the `Empty ROMs folder removal` tool. But then realized after a long bit of pondering and regret that they still wanted them. Or it can be used by those users that accidentally deleted `retrodeck/roms` subfolders while moving files around (you know who you are).


**Fixed:**

- A problem with `.chd` compression that was introduced in 0.8.1b.
- A problem with multi-file compression tool that prevented some file types to be properly converted that was introduced in 0.8.1b.


## CEMU


**Added:**

- Added microphone blow input to R3 (this only works is some games).


**Fixed:**

- A problem with audio output on when docking and undocking.


##  RetroDECK Framework / Backend:

**Added:**

- Enabled a self-hosted Gitea repo for disaster recovery.
- Added headless states for some functions (this will help to migrate to the Godot Configurator)

Commit message:

Updated 0.8.2b with Ryujinx known issue

wiki-rtd/docs/wiki_rd_versions/version_0.8.0b/0.8.2b.md, after:

# RetroDECK 0.8.2b

**Release date:** 2024-07-15

## WARNING:
There is a know issue about Ryujinx, please read more in the [Known Issues](../wiki_bugs/known-issues.md) page.

## Updates

Everything was updated to their latest version where possible.

- Emulators
- ES-DE
- Engines
- RetroArch: Stable Cores and Nightly Cores


## Framework upgrade

We upgraded KDE Framework to 6.7, the original plan was to do this during 0.9.0b but we manged to squeeze it in now thanks to new PR's in Dolphin and Primehack.

## RetroDECK Configurator

**Added:**

- A new `Empty ROMs folder removal` tool. This tools cleans up empty folders from `retrodeck/roms`. It's for those users that don't want to have a bunch of empty subfolders populating `retrodeck/roms` to keep it slim and clean for the games they play.
- A new `Rebuild removed ROMs folders` tool. It's for those users that did not want to have a bunch of empty folders populating `retrodeck/roms` and ran the `Empty ROMs folder removal` tool. But then realized after a long bit of pondering and regret that they still wanted them. Or it can be used by those users that accidentally deleted `retrodeck/roms` subfolders while moving files around (you know who you are).

**Fixed:**

- A problem with `.chd` compression that was introduced in 0.8.1b.
- A problem with multi-file compression tool that prevented some file types to be properly converted that was introduced in 0.8.1b.

## CEMU


**Added:**

- Added microphone blow input to R3 (this only works is some games).


**Fixed:**

- A problem with audio output on when docking and undocking.

## Duckstation

**Changed:**
- Duckstation is now out of the rolling release, the build should be more stable now albiet we're still using tested nightlies

##  RetroDECK Framework / Backend:

**Added:**

- Enabled a self-hosted Gitea repo for disaster recovery.
- Added headless states for some functions (this will help to migrate to the Godot Configurator)

**Fixed:**
- An issue where second level subfolders inside retrodeck folder were not correctly placed, this caused errors on ES-DE as `themes` and `downloaded_media`` folder could not be found after a reset or first install.
