# RetroDECK 0.8.4b

**Release date:** 2024-08-13

## Information: Scraping Data Issue

We fixed several issues with downloaded scraped data not showing up in ES-DE.

For some users the scraped data was not moved correctly over to the subfolder `retrodeck/ES-DE/` in the older 0.8.X patches (the data was still there).

We apologize for the issue and the frustration it caused and we always try our best to test various features. <br>
But the change was quite complex, and we missed a few scenarios. <br>
We are looking over our testing routines and volunteering tester program to make things even better. <br>
The team hopes eventually we have more community beta testers volunteering and we have developed some automated testing tools. <br>

If you want to help with testing contact us on [Discord](https://discord.gg/WDc5C9YWMx) or [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#retrodeck:matrix.org).

These issues were caused by the old manifest structure and certain Zenity prompts and the goal is to move away from Zenity in 0.9.0b.

We are making a brand new and rewritten from the ground up RetroDECK manifest in 0.9.0b (more on that in the future).


### How will this patch work?

When you upgrade RetroDECK will check if the folders `downloaded_media` and `themes` still exists under the `retrodeck/` folder.

It will also check so the symlinks for `gamelists` and `collections` are correct and if not update them.

It will check the `es_settings` have the correct filepaths for the `retrodeck/ES-DE/` folders and if not update the values.

**If themes & downloaded_media still exist in retrodeck/:**

The folders will be moved into `retrodeck/ES-DE/`.

**If duplicate folders exists:**

If the folders exist at both places: `retrodeck/` and `retrodeck/ES-DE/` the folders from `retrodeck/` will be merged into the folders under the `downloaded_media` and `themes` in `retrodeck/ES-DE/`.

##  RetroDECK Framework / Backend:

**Fixed:**

- Folders were not correctly placed and moved from `retrodeck/` to the new folder structure under the `retrodeck/ES-DE/` in some scenarios for users causing the ES-DE data to be not found by ES-DE.

- String values of es_settings were not updated for `MediaDirectory` and `UserThemeDirectory` in some scenarios for users causing the ES-DE data to be not found by ES-DE.

- On new installations two folders could be created for scraped data, for example: one `downloaded_media` under `retrodeck/` and one under `retrodeck/ES-DE/`.

**Added**

- Post-update CLI trigger command for debugging.
