# RetroDECK 0.8.1b

Release date: 2024-05-XX

## Updated

Everything was updated to their latest version where possible.

- Emulators (except: Dolphin, Primehack, RPCS3)
- Engines
- RetroArch, Stable Cores and Nightly Cores

## New Features & other changes

**Added:**

- New subfolder `retrodeck/ES-DE/` that now contains the ES-DE userdata (as the retrodeck folder was getting crowded).
- A new folder for ES-DE custom game collections in `retrodeck/ES-DE/collections/` (stops them from being wiped during a reset).
- A new warning to check for background windows, useful when installing RCPS3 firmware and other Emulator window pop-ups.
- Bios checker support for 3DO, GB, GBC, GBA, Neo Geo CD.

**Fixed:**

- Helper files got updated links pointing to the new wiki.

**Changed:**

- Gamelists are moved and now located in  `retrodeck/ES-DE/gamelists/`.
- Themes are moved and now located in  `retrodeck/ES-DE/themes/`.
- Downloaded Media is moved and now located in `retrodeck/ES-DE/downloaded_media/`.

## Ryujinx

**Added:**

- Helper .txt files on how to install firmware.

## MAME

**Added:**

- [Pugsy's Cheats](https://www.mamecheat.co.uk/) - RetroDECK now ship this optional cheat database for MAME in the cheat folder. Also credited the Pugsy community (mamecheat.co.uk) in credits page on the wiki.
- Samples folder is now linked to `bios/mame-sa/samples`.


## GZDoom

**Fixed:**

- GZDoom couldn't be reset in the configurator because of an uppercase / lowercase conflict.

## RetroArch

**Changed:**

- Citra Core changed settings upscaled to 2x, set system as "New 3DS".
- `gw_libretro` is now the default core for Game And Watch.

**Fixed:**

- A zip that contained more than the one file sometimes failed to load the game.
- Mesen core enabled FDS disk auto insert disks.
- ScummVM missing assets on reset.

**Known issues:**

- GBA border is not applied correctly in RetroArch (still being investigated, a fix will come in a future update).

## Steam Input - Steam Deck - Full Layout

**Fixed:**

- An issue with Switch and 3DS radial buttons being mapped to the wrong submenu (version increased to **1.1b**).

##  RetroDECK Framework / Backend:

**Changed:**

- Version notes are no more outputed in the terminal or in the logs.
- PR builds are recognized the same as cooker builds.
- QT_QPA_PLATFORM changed load order of wayland and wayland-egl.


**Fixed:**

- Re-added accidentally removed `other_licences.txt` file.

**Other**

- We are waiting for a fix for Dolphin & Primehack before we can update QT to the latest version. We are aware of the warning in the terminal.
