# RetroDECK v0.8.0b - Bonsai Banana

WIP reminders list, needs to be written

**Release Date: TBA**

## Notice: Removal of Yuzu & Citra

- Yuzu
- Citra (Standalone)

New defaults are `Ryujinx` and `Citra-Core` in RetroArch

## Heads-up: RPSC3 changes

- Change: RPCS3 Game shortcuts .desktop files are now standard.
- Fixed: An issue was causing the RPCS3 saves folder not to be mapped in saves/ps3/.

ADD MORE

Read more here
https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_emulator_guides/rpcs3/rpcs3-guide/#how-to-get-games-to-show-up-inside-the-es-de-interface


## NEW: Steam Deck Controller Profile SIMPLE

This is a new lighter profile with a lighter radial menu on the left touchpad.

- Added an additional new profile for the Steam Deck based on the External Controllers: SIMPLE

LINK HERE TO WIKI

## UPDATE: Steam Deck Controller Profile FULL

This is the old profile with the deep radial menu system on the left touchpad.

- Change: Renamed profile <>
- Change: MAME Menu - Changed all the binds to reflect new MAME (Standalone) config.
- Added: Wii/GC Menu - Wii Mote Sync 1 to 4 buttons.
- Added: Wii/GC Menu - New icons to Wii Mote Standing / Laying buttons.
- Added: MAME Menu - Added Tilt 1 to 4 buttons.
- Removed: secrets


### New: SCUMMVM Menu

A new SCUMMVM Menu allows quick access to common commands used by a big chunk of the SCUMMVM games.

The design intent is that when you are playing a SCUMMVM game on the Steam Deck. You can have the SCUMMVM menu open on the left touchpad while you use the mouse on the right touchpad to navigate the game.

The following commands are available:

- Open - O
- Close - C
- Fight - F
- Use - U
- Pick-up - P
- Push/Shove - S
- Pull/Yank - Y
- Look-At - L
- Talk To - T
- Give - G
- Move - M

### New: GZDoom Cheat Menu

A bug in Steam Input prevents us from add more cheats the two we have added and The RetroDECK Team have reported the bug to Valve.

The following commands are available:

- Get All Items
- Get All Items + Keys

This menu is also a tiny showcase on what is possible with the radial buttons, we also wanted to add other famous cheats like the Konami Code on a button (but the bug is stopping us).

## NEW: RetroDECK External Controller Profiles

All controller profiles uses the same one layer radial menu with good to have hotkeys in addition to the normal button hotkeys. To access the radial menu press and hold SELECT + Move the Left Joystick and Press L3 to press the radial button.

### Might work on more devices

We have also gotten user reports that these profiles work on devices that simulates certain controllers via Steam Input like the Lenovo Legion Go. The devices will pickup one the profile it is mimicing if it is a DualSense or Xbox Wireless and allow hotkeys to be used on that device.

The RetroDECK Team does not own these devices and we can not test them ourself, but if you discover something you can report to the RetroDECK Team on Discord or Matrix.

### What does the External Controller profiles allow me to do?

The Radial menu quick access for various good to have PC commands like ESC, F1, Enter but also Screen Switching on Dual Screen Emulators or Change Discs. The intent is to use the button combos as the main input for the important hotkeys like saving and loading.

One other important feature is press and hold SELECT and move Right Stick and it will work as Mouse with R3 as Left Click and L3 as Right Click. This can be extremely usefull:

- Navigating emulator GUIs.
- Close a pop-up window.
- Use the Wii Pointer
- Playing point and click or just PC games.


### Known Issues: External Controllers - Steam Deck

- Sometimes the emulators / engines gets confused on what controller is player 1 and takes the docked Steam Deck as player 1 and not the external contrller. You can solve this by going into the Reorder Controllers interface in Steam and try switching between Player 1 or Player 2.

### Known Issues: External Controllers - Linux Desktop

Linux Desktop via Steam Input is complex. There are a lot of variables and the RetroDECK Team don't have the ability to test for all of them:

- What kind of packages are installed.
- What kind of drivers you have installed.
- What distro you are using.
- What desktop you are using.
- If you are running X11 or Wayland.
- If you have a Steam Deck based Distro with Valves "Game Mode".

We are trying to keep track of all the issues here and have reported several to Valve:

https://github.com/XargonWan/RetroDECK/issues/716

**Bug: Destop Profiles take preset over Game Profile**

Since the one of the recent Steam Client updates, there is a bug that causes Steam to take the Desktop Profile instead of the Game Profile. Sometimes it even takes both inputs and sends double inputs for every action.

Possible solutions by our users and team members:

- Try and use the RetroDECK Profile as the Desktop Profile and turning off the Game Profile.
- Going into big picture and launching RetroDECK from there.
- Starting big picture, exiting big picture and then launching RetroDECK from the Desktop Client.

**Bug: Missing Radials in certain systems**

The radial menus on certain Linux Systems are hidden behind the game window or the Steam overlay (they still work and you can navigate them).

We thought about doing a temporary none radial profiles for each controller to get around this bug.<br>
But later changed our minds as we would have even more input configs to maintain, with a risk they become permanent.



### The RetroDECK external controller radial menu

It features a variety of PC commands and other commands that are good to have. While the most important commands are bound to the normal button combos.

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/radial-menus/controller-standard-radial/

DESCIBE THE INTENT OF BUTTONS

### Generic - Standard

[The Generic - Standard](https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/generic/standard/generic-standard/) encompasses the vast majority of none official third party controllers that have all the buttons of a modern controller like 8BitDo Pro2 or the Xiaomi Controller.

Profile Name:
Hotkeys:

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/generic/standard/generic-standard-hotkeys/

### Switcb Pro

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/nintendo/switch-pro/

Profile Name:
Hotkeys:

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/nintendo/nintendo-hotkeys/

### Steam Controller - Gordon

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/steam/steam-controller-gordon/

Profile Name:
Hotkeys:

Extra features in the profile:

- Features two hotkey buttons SELECT and L4
- Features a Mouse Mode / Joystick Mode Switcher on R4 that switches the right touchpad between permanent mouse or right joystick.

### DualShock 3

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/playstation/dualshock-3/
https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/playstation/playstation-hotkeys/

Profile Name:
Hotkeys:

Extra features in the profile:

### DualShock 4

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/playstation/dualshock-4/
https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/playstation/playstation-hotkeys/


Profile Name:
Hotkeys:

Extra features in the profile:

- Features mouse on the touchpad with left click on the right side and right click on the left side.

### DualSense

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/playstation/dualsense/

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/playstation/playstation-hotkeys/

Profile Name:
Hotkeys:

Extra features in the profile:

- Features mouse on the touchpad with left click on the right side and right click on the left side.

### Xbox 360 Controller

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/xbox/xbox-360/
https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/xbox/xbox-hotkeys/

Profile Name:
Hotkeys:

### Xbox Wireless

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/xbox/xbox-wireless/
https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_controllers/xbox/xbox-hotkeys/

Profile Name:
Hotkeys:

## NEW Engine: GZDoom

- New .doom RetroDECK Parser
- Easier modding
- GZ doom steam input bugs´
- Based on TimeSplitters: Future Perfect controls for the PS2, breaking the cycle of bad controls on GZDOOM.
- DOOM-DOOM-DOOM that is 3 times the DOOM.
- Danker Doomier Memes

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_engine_guides/gzdoom/gzdoom-guide/
https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_engine_guides/gzdoom/gzdoom-controls/
https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_engine_guides/gzdoom/retrodeck-doomfile/
https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_engine_guides/gzdoom/extract-doom-wads/

### External Controller Issues - GZDOOM

GZDOOM have some kind of conflict with Steam Input in when more then one controller that causes input looping in menus. Make sure that the controller you are using is set as Player 1 else use Reorder Controllers interface in Steam to make it Player 1.

We are still investigation the cause of it, if you know of a solution please contact the RetroDECK Team.

## NEW Engine: IkemanGO (M.U.G.E.N)

Fighting game engine that is compatible with M.U.G.E.N.

Each game is it's own standalone instance, read more here:

We have also made some tips and guidelines on how to convert old M.U.G.E.N games to IkemanGO

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_engine_guides/ikemengo/ikemengo-guide/
https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_engine_guides/ikemengo/ikemengo-guide/

## New Engine: Solarus

Action RPG game engine Solarus.

Each game is it's own standalone instance, read more here:

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_engine_guides/solarus/solarus-guide/

## New Engine: OpenBOR

Beat'em up game engine OpenBOR.

Each game is it's own standalone instance, read more here:

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_engine_guides/openbor/openbor-guide/

## New Emulator: Ryujinx

Switch Emulator Ryujinx

## New Emulator: Vita3k

PSVita Emulator Vita3k

## New Emulator: MAME (Standalone)

Multiple Arcade Machine Emulator (MAME)

Full MAME enables even more arcade titles to be run against it then the MAME-Core in RetroArch.

### MAME enables a lot of systems

With the inclusions of both MAME - Standalone and ES-DE 3.0 in RetroDECK 0.8.0b. The following systems are also available and they target either MAME (Standalone) or MAME-Core in RetroArch (depending on recommenced defaults).

- Acorn Archimedes
- Acorn Computers BBC Micro
- Apple II
- Apple IIGS
- Bit Corporation Gamate
- Coleco Adam
- Daphne Arcade LaserDisc Emulator
- Emerson Arcadia 2001
- Fujitsu FM Town
- Funtech Super A'Can
- Hartung Game Master
- LaserDisc Games
- Texas Instruments TI-99
- VTech CreatiVision
- VTech V.Smile

## Ponzu

Ponzu is in part the former Yuzu (Custom) AppImage loader and tool that we had planned for 0.8.0b. If the user has personal backups of the last versions of the now dead emulators in AppImage format they can temporarily be used with RetroDECK as-is.

https://retrodeck.readthedocs.io/en/latest/wiki_configurator/ponzu/

### Should this be seen as official support for the removed emulators?

No, the only official and supported defaults are Ryujinx and Citra-core in RetroArch.

RetroDECK will not provide any new: configs, bugfixes, improvements or support towards the AppImages. There is also a risk that future updates can break the compatibility with the AppImages (because they are no longer maintained and dead), this is a as-is solution.

We strongly recommenced everyone to just use Ponzu as a way to safely migrate to Ryujinx or the Citra-core (save and move).

### Will you be looking in into other forks of Citra & Yuzu later and add into RetroDECK?

First, this type of event makes it ripe for scammers.

We would urge all users to be extra careful and not blindly downloading everything you see on the internet including fan fixes for the dead emulators.

If good, safe and ethical forks arises that have been vetted by the FOSS community...we will look into it.

https://arstechnica.com/security/2024/02/github-besieged-by-millions-of-malicious-repositories-in-ongoing-attack/


## Emulators Changes

All emulators have been tweaked!

### Dolphin

- Optimized the graphics configurations
- Improved GC binds.
- Improved & Changed Wii Binds.
- Improved GBA binds.
- Added better binds for Player 1 to 4 GC & Wii
- Enabled Gyro support.
- Graphical Tweaks: Based on user feedback
- Added better binds for Player 2 to 4

### Duckstation:

- Reworked and Added: Better binds for Player 1 to 4
- Fixed memory card folder not being linked to saves/psx

### Primehack

- Graphical Tweaks: Based on user feedback
- Added better binds for Player 1
- Enabled Gyro support.
- Added more custom icons for Primehack.

## CEMU

- Optimized the graphics configurations
- Added Gyro support if you have it installed for player 1.
- Added better binds for Player 2 to 4
- Graphical Tweaks: Based on user feedback

### RPCS3

- Graphical Tweaks: Based on user feedback
- Added better binds for Player 2 to 4


### PCSX2

- Graphical Tweaks: Based on user feedback
- Added better binds for Player 2 to 4

### PPSSPP

- Graphical Tweaks: Based on user feedback
- Enabled: Extra Binds - Right Joystick
- Change: Is now running games via shortcut by default (allows easier running for more games).

### MelonDS

- Graphical Tweaks: Based on user feedback

### RetroArch

- SCUMMVM-Core: Fixed a bug where the core did not find the Extras folder.
- RetroArch: Fixed a bug where in certain scenarios RetroArch would forget the roms folder.

## Other changes

### Framework

- Added: support for Steam Flatpak profile injection.
- Added: A quit_retrodeck function to ease the quit in the scripts.
- Added: Several build pipeline improvements.
- Change: The retrodeck/logs folder is no longer hidden by default.
- Fixed: Various issues when building RetroDECK locally for development.
- Fixed: Some wayland related issues.
- Removed: Talk names in the manifest as they're not needed anymore as enabled by default.

### Configurator

- Fixed: Quit button after emulators reset should act as an actual full quit button.

### Updates

- Updated ES-DE to 3.0.1
- Updated all emulators

### HEY YOU?! RetroDECK Team Where is the add to Steam Function? 👿

With the focus of both removing Yuzu and Citra from RetroDECK + implementing ES-DE 3.0 changes it needed to be pushed back. Hopefully we can add it a minor update like 0.8.X. We got a few bugs we need to fix with the BoliR developer.

### What about the Multiuser Mode? 👿

That still needed more time in the oven for the complexity of it and we will put it out in another big version. This update is already quite big!
